# BDD_ranked_choice by Todd Hartman and Ishan Kalburge
A greedy approach to matching patients to their preferred doctor using ranked preference lists provided by the patients.

## Approach
The algorithim randomizes the patients in a list and tries to match each patient to the highest ranked doctor on their list. If the doctor's capacity is full and the already-matched patients have the doctor ranked equal or higher than the current patient, the algorithm moves on to the next doctor on the patient's list. If the current patient has ranked the doctor higher than one of the patients on the tenative list, the tentatively matched patient is removed from the list and added back into the unmatched queue, and the current patient is added to that doctor's list. The algorithm repeats this until every patient has been matched.

## Specifications/Assumptions
* The ranking algorithm reads in a .csv file generated by the BDDcsvMaker.py script which makes a randomized patient preference list given the number of patients and doctors provided. 
* Since constant doctor capacity could be assumed, the doctor capacity was set to be the minimum capacity needed to be able to accomodate all of the patients. 
* We also assume that the patient rank-order preferences list is an K by N table, where K is the number of doctors and N is the number of patients.

## Design Choice
Given limited time, we opted for the most efficient implementation for a matching algorithm. Though we acknowledge that algorithms like the Hungarian algorithm and transporation algorithms in optimization can generate lower total cost, we believe our implementation provides a fair, concise, and efficient means of matching patients with doctors. Moreover, according to the medical professionals website Thalamus, our algorithm works much in the same way medical students are matched to their residency programs [1]. Therefore, we believe this is a robust solution to the rank-order matching problem given limited time and resources.

## References
[1] The Ultimate Guide to the Medical Residency Match Process. Thalamus. (2020, March 17). Retrieved September 6, 2022, from https://thalamusgme.com/the-ultimate-guide-to-the-medical-residency-match-process/#:~:text=If%20there%20is%20a%20match,not%20occupy%20the%20available%20positions. 
